---
layout: post
title:  "We're hiring"
date:   2017-09-20 17:10:32 -0400
categories: company
---
We are seeking 2-4 interns to take on meaningful roles at [reallyread.it](https://reallyread.it/), an exciting, early-stage technology company. Interns should be ready to start immediately and commit 5-15 hours/week. If things go well, we may want to extend some or all of these internships through summer and/or hire full-time.

We need hard-working, self-motivated team-players. 

We have two core values: (1) We respect our users (2) We don't take ourselves too seriously. 

*****
<br> 
<u> Head of Marketing, Growth </u> <br> <br>
We need a media maven to help us define and communicate our message to the world. You'll use data and creativity to drive traffic to our nascent site. Creativity counts. Successful candidates will have experience in some or all of the following: 

- photoshop and/or illustrator
- managing social media accounts
- managing a brand
- developing a social media strategy
- developing a content strategy 
- blogging
- community management

You must be passionate about reading and knowledge. You should be a great writer and storyteller. We are especially interested in talking to candidates who have worked in product marketing roles or in the media industry, but we're open to working with highly-energetic candidates who have less experience. 

This is an unpaid position. 

*****
<br>
<u> Head of Business Development, Sales </u> <br> <br>
We're looking for a lone wolf, revenue-obsessed seller. Our technology has huge commercial value and we need you to get it out into the world. We're moving at breakneck speed and we won't have time to hold your hand. We'll tag along for big meetings, but you should be prepared to operate with a very long leash. 

You must be ready to do all of the following: 
- define & target our clients (make "hit lists")
- outreach (cold calls, emails, etc.)
- ruthlessly follow-up; you own the entire pipeline
- create sales collateral, build decks and give presentations, set pricing & draft contracts
- CLOSE. DEALS.

This should make things really easy: Your performance = company revenue. And you will be compensated accordingly.

<b> This is a commission-based, paid position with a huge upside! </b>

A big chunk of the revenue you win is yours to keep. It's entirely possible that you'll earn six figures in six months. We want someone that believes in our technology and their own ability to sell it. This is an extremely unique opportunity to get a ground-floor seat at an organization that's positioned to disrupt several billion-dollar industries, including social media & journalism. 
<br> 

*****

<br> 
We need help and expertise in other areas and we're open to hearing from exceptional candidates who want to design their own roles. We are a fully remote organization.
<br>
<br>

*****
<br> 
<u> How to Apply.</u> Our company isn't like other companies, so our application process isn't like other application processes. 

1.) Use reallyread.it. Read some articles and make some comments.

2.) Email admin@reallyread.it with a link to your LinkedIn profile. Alternatively, you may attach your resume. In the email, please provide links to your comments on reallyread.it and answers to the following questions: 

- What did you think about your experience using reallyread.it? (Really.)
- What role are you applying for?
- Why? 

*****
<br>
<b> If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out to bill@reallyread.it </b>