---
layout: post
title:  "FAQ"
date:   2017-07-12 17:10:32 -0400
categories: beta
---
[Updated: Dec 2018]

## **What is reallyread.it?**
A community of readers. A group of people who enjoy thinking critically and deeply. Every day we read and talk about the best articles and stories from the world's top publications and independent writers. 

The platform, also called reallyread.it, is our hub. It's a new breed of social media, powered by *actual* reading rather than likes and shares. Social media that's really, *actually* good for you. 

## **What is “real” reading?** 
It's reading something entirely, from top to bottom, beginning to end. This is how writers intend for their writing to be read. Before social media, we did this more often. On the internet, we almost never do it.

## **How does it work?**
**Mac or PC:** Add the [chrome extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/reallyreadit/mkeiglkfdfamdjehidenkklibndmljfi) and create an account on our website, reallyread.it. Read and comment on articles and use the browser button to star and read articles from anywhere on the internet.

**iPhone or iPad:** Read on our mobile app. Find us in the App Store.  

## **Does *really* reading matter?** 
Yes. It grows the brain and feeds the soul. It makes you smarter and more informed about what's going on in the world. Beyond that, it makes you happier and healthier. Non-reading (skimming and scanning) doesn't do that.

## **What if I'm not good at reading?**
Good news: You can get good, fast. Just read, as deeply as possible, as often as possible. Reading is a lot like physical exercise. The more you do it the better you get. 

## **What's an advanced reader?**
One who no longer wonders whether or not they're an advancer reader.

## **Can I "like" or "upvote" things?**
No. We're proud to have done away with vanity metrics. Instead, on reallyread.it, articles rise when they get widely read and/or commented on by our community.

There's also no personalized feed, which means no echo-chambers.

## **Who are the moderators?**  
reallyread.it has no moderators. Conversations stay civil and on-topic because the platform enforces one universal rule: nobody can comment on articles they haven't really read. 

## **Who curates the articles on the Home page?**
Nobody. To avoid human bias, everything is crowdsourced. Our algorithm is powered by reading data created by the community. If something is getting lots of reads, it’s probably worth reading. Nobody reads clickbait, which is why it doesn’t exist here. 

## **Does reallyread.it make money?** 
Not yet, but we're exploring several business models that cut advertisers out of the equation.

## **I want to get involved. How can I help?** 
Two things: (1) Read and comment as much as possible and (2) tell everyone you know about reallyread.it!

## **What if I have *another* question?**

Great! Send Bill an email: bill@reallyread.it 