---
layout: post
title:  "reallyread.it iOS app is live in the App Store!"
date:   2018-12-08
categories: mobile
---
Dear readers,

Two and a half years ago, I called my friend Jeff to talk about a business idea, one that could potentially fix the worst part of the internet, the comment section. Our idea was simple: prohibit people from commenting on articles they haven’t really read. After all, it’s just a few bad apples who ruin it for everyone.

In the meantime, when it comes to delivering high-quality news and information, social media has proven to be a cataclysmic failure, a veritable wrecking ball to some surprisingly sensitive industries and institutions. Frustration with the media and the largest social media platforms is at an all time high.

## Today, we’re excited to announce that we’re launching our first iPhone/iPad app. In fact, you're the first to know about it.
## [We're in the App Store!](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/reallyread-it/id1441825432)

Now, reader, we need your help to spread the word and grow the reallyread.it community. Please consider helping us out in these ways:

(1) Share this link, far and wide: [https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/reallyread-it/id1441825432](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/reallyread-it/id1441825432)

(2) Use the app and send us your feedback. We read and review every email we get. And please give us 5 stars in the App Store. :)

The app was built to help you read better and read more. Remember that reading is a skill. You can improve if you set your mind to it. Finally, thank you reader, early adopter, friend of rr. We literally wouldn’t be able to do this without you.

-Bill

bill@reallyread.it