---
layout: post
title:  A Post About Posting and Posts
date:   2019-09-04
author: Bill Loundy
---
Clever title, eh? 

Before settling on that, I considered a few alternate titles, including "Readup 2.0," "This Changes Everything" and "Readup Will Never Be The Same Again." Needless to say, I have exciting news to share about some big updates to the platform. If you've been away for a while, it's a great time to get back on Readup and *ahem* maybe go tell some friends to visit readup.com. ;)

Before getting to the good stuff - the new features - I want to say a few quick things about the direction we're going and why. Our goal is to make the platform more fun, more _social_, and more interesting, without compromising on our commitment to reading. For several years, we've been calling ourselves a social reading platform - Readup doesn't fit nearly into "social media" or "reading." It's social reading. 

Reading remains the core experience on Readup, the required entry point to interact with any people or content. 

Without further ado, here's what's new: 

*Post articles.* You can now post anything you’ve read to your Readup profile page. Posting an article proves that you read it and kicks off a conversation with the rest of the Readup community. 

*Get followers.* On your profile page, you'll see a "Get followers" button. Share your profile far and wide so that others can stay up to date on your Readup activity. (Note: Your reading history is still private and always will be.)

*Follow people.* It just takes one click and it's like having a real friend to really read with because, uh, it kind of *is* a real friend to really read with. :)

*Bookmarks* See what percentage of an article you have read in the grey bookmark icon. 

*Improved Reader Mode.* Images in articles should always work now. And, yes, _even fewer_ distractions! We already had the cleanest, most beautiful reader view on the internet. Now it's even better. 

Stay curious. Stay nice. Have so much fun. And... 

**... _tell us what you think!_ Now more than ever, we really need your feedback. It's code red. Mission critical. So don't hesitate to reach out. support@readup.com or bill@readup.com**