---
layout: post
title:  One hundred years of screen time 
date:   2019-06-09
---
For quite some time, I’ve struggled to explain the rationale behind what appears to be the most glaringly hypocritical aspect of my life: I’m the CEO of a tech company that makes [an app], and yet I refuse to use a smartphone. I have a flip phone. Most peoples’ eyes glaze over when I try clarify that, first of all, Readup isn’t just an app. It’s a platform. And since I tend to be long-winded anyway, it’s an approach that’s never going to work. I need a new angle. 

Thankfully, we just launched Stats, an exciting new feature that we’ve been planning for over a year. And in the funny way that startups are full of surprises, it just occurred to me, quite unexpectedly, that the best way to tell you about Stats, how it came to be and why we think it’s a big deal, might also be an opportunity to put this whole flip phone issue to bed once and for all. 

But first, I need to rewind. 

September 2011. I’m twenty-four. My undergrad days at Stanford feel like ancient history even though I’m barely a year out and never even graduated. I’ll sort that out later. For now, I’m living in the glow of startup land: solid job, apartment in Pac Heights with sweeping views of the Golden Gate and Alcatraz, the whole nine yards. But something isn’t right and that something seems to be emanating from my phone. So I do what a lot of people do when they need to figure shit out. I enroll in a yoga teacher training course. For ten weeks in a row, I’m in yoga mode from Friday afternoon to Sunday night. And to kick it up a notch, I decide to leave my phone at home and sleep the nights under the stars in the Berkeley foothills. The charade has a lot to do with the fact that I had recently read Dharma Bums, but in hindsight, I can see that I was pioneering something that would become a widespread cultural phenomenon before the end of the decade: the digital detox. 

Fast forward. January 2018. On a cold winter night in New Hampshire, Jeff and I are in the woods with shovels and flashlights. We’re stomping through a foot of snow and ice, trying to figure out where I buried my iPhone the previous fall. The following morning, we’re set to kick off an iOS project with a team of eight Dartmouth undergraduates. Needless to say, it won’t look good if I don’t have a device. The technical aspects of this project are complicated enough, I can’t imagine how confused these students will be if I try to explain how the flip phone fits in with the larger vision: We’re building an entirely new medium. A better way to use the internet. Time well spent. Screen time that’s good for you! Reading! Besides, at this point in time, the vision still isn’t even clear to me. What I know is that I hate my iPhone. I like having it underground. And, sure enough, we can’t find it anyway. After digging a few holes, we give up and call it a night.

So, why am I telling you all of this? Because I want you to understand, and to really believe, that I’ve been thinking about this topic  — healthy tech, “humane” tech, what we talk about when we talk about screen time — for my entire career, my entire adult life. Fast forward again, to today, to right now. I’m typing on an Alphasmart NEO, disconnected from everything and everyone, in the middle of the woods in Manistee National Forest in northern Michigan. 

I’m entirely disconnected from the internet for most of the day, every day. When I do pop online, usually at public libraries, I send emails and read, on Readup, of course. As a CEO, I also face a smattering of random to-dos on a daily basis, but I’ve learned that almost everything can wait a day, and it’s nice to think about things. Let stuff marinate. And sometimes, let stuff go. Slow and focused — what Cal Newport (who doesn’t use social media) calls “deep work” — is actually easier, saner, and way more enjoyable. That tortoise and hare thing is worth taking seriously after all.

And the movement is growing. In addition to Newport, there’s Tristan Harris (the human face of the anti-tech or “humane tech” movement), Maryanne Wolf, Jaron Lanier, Sherry Turkle, Jenny Odell, surveillance capitalism author, (Breaking up with your phone author), and the godfather of it all, Nicholas Carr, whose book The Shallows: What the Internet Is Doing to Our Brains is the singular magnum opus that set the movement in motion back in 2010.

Amongst this group of thinkers, there is unanimous agreement: “screen time = bad” is a crucial starting point, but it’s not the final answer. I sit at the radical end of the spectrum, and even I agree. We can’t reject screens altogether. What we need is to reimagine the way that screens exist in our lives. We need the screens to be better. 

I read on an old iPad that I hacked to be a Readup-only device. When turned on, it loads the Readup app, and it can’t do anything else. I use it to read and that’s it. And it’s amazing. It’s a prototype Readup eReader, perfect for 100% distraction-free reading. It’s amazing, a truly awesome screen to spend some time with, the more the better. For me, it’s been a revelation. 

This brings me to Stats. When I look at it, I don’t see stuff I wish I wasn’t doing. I see something I’m proud of. I see positivity. I’ve spoken and extensively on this topics, the fundamental goodness of reading, how it’s like running, eating vegetables, lifting weights, studying. What makes the Stats graph so groundbreaking is that it’s a visual manifestation of that positivity, that goodness. I makes me think of words like “strive,” and “achieve.” It makes me happy. 

I have mixed feelings about the “quantified-self” movement. As a runner, I turned a corner when I stopped timing myself and tracking distances. Now I just run. And, ironically, I think I’m going faster and further than ever before. One user told me: “I’m a bit leery about the gamification aspect XXXXX USE KENTS EXACT QUOTE,” which I fully understand. We considered these tradeoffs. Ultimately, the decision to allow users to see their own Stats was a no-brainer. Different things will motivate different people and we need to make all of it available to everyone so that everyone can read more. 

Beyond all of that, Stats is, in a way, our entire mission in a nutshell. We exist to get people reading. That involves helping people (including ourselves) to slow down, to stop bouncing around aimlessly, to focus. In a way, launching stats is a sigh of relief for me, an opportunity for me to reflect not only on my own personal goals as a reader, but also as an entrepreneur. Something about the Stats screen that, frankly, caught me off guard is that it’s a huge step forward in terms of organizational transparency. Our goal, as a company, is perfectly in line with your goals, as a user. (More reading.) 

This isn’t true elsewhere. Facebook doesn’t show Stats because it would be horrifying to most people. Twitter and Reddit are a bit more forthright (hence the corporate vibes that sometimes feel downright brutal) in showing you aspects of your “performance” (likes, followers, karma, whatever) but as far as I know there’s no platform, except Readup, that shows time as the top level metric as clearly and honestly as Readup. 

Readup = reading = time well spent. 

Of course it’s not that simple. We still have some big mountains to climb. Financial sustainability is the biggest and most obvious one. But since we know our true north, true reading, a lot of the ethical questions have simple answers. (For example, we specifically don’t want you getting lost in the article selection process, the Discover page. The purpose of that page is to get you off of that page, to get you reading, as quickly as possible.) 

To buy into all of this, you really only need to buy into one simple concept: That reading is inherently good. Yesterday, at the Pathfinder Library in Baldwin, Michigan, I saw a little old lady fill an entire bag with books. Specifically, brand of cheap, pseudo-steamy romance novels about “Faith, Love, and Hope” with titles like “The Amish Widow’s Rescue” and “My One And Only Duke.” The librarians confirmed for me that it’s hard for them to sate her voracious reading appetite. For a few seconds, I wondered: Is that even good? It is healthy? And the answer, I think, is clear: Yes. Reading, no matter what you’re reading, or when or why, is always a good thing. There’s no such thing as “waste of time” reading, “destructive” reading, “reading addiction.” Reading is good. Period. 

David Carr, in The Shallows, hits the nail on the head: 

>> The form that writing came to take on a page of parchment or paper enabled us to become deep readers, to turn our attention, and our brain power, to the interpretation of meaning. With writing on the screen, we’re still able to decode text quickly — we read, if anything, faster than ever — but we’re no longer guided toward a deep, personally constructed understanding of the text’s connotations. Instead, we’re hurried off toward another bit of related information, and then another, and another. The strip-mining of “relevant content” replaces the slow excavation of meaning.

That’s one of several passages that I surrounded with stars and exclamation points and even a little hand-drawn brain. It still shocks me that his primary target was Google, not social media, and that those words were written long before Facebook and Twitter became dominant forces in society. Now, a decade later, that reads like a premonition. 

The solution has never not been reading. But now, with the release of Stats, for the first time ever, the solution is measurable. 

Eighty years from now, we’ll look back on one hundred years of screen time. What a fantastical thing to consider, as we sit here, reading and writing that story as we speak. 

**What say you? About Stats. About screen time. About anything and everything. Your feedback is our future.**