---
layout: post
title:  A Post About Posting and Posts
date:   2019-09-04
author: Bill Loundy
---
Clever title, eh? 

Before settling on that, I considered a few alternate titles, including "Readup 2.0," "This Changes Everything" and "Readup Will Never Be The Same Again." Ultimately, I couldn't resist the pun, but I also didn't want to risk understating the _bigness_ of what's happening. 

**We have big, exciting news to share about major improvements to the Readup platform.** 

If you've been away for a while, it's a great time to get back on Readup and .. _ahem!_ ... maybe go tell some friends to check out readup.com. ;)

Our goal is to make the platform more fun, more _social_, and more interesting, without compromising on our commitment to reading. For years, we've been calling ourselves a social reading platform, since we're not a social media company, but also not not a digital media business. Now, finally, the site is really starting to feel like a social reading platform. 

The new slogan is: **Read With Friends.**

Reading remains the core experience on Readup, the required entry point to interact with any people or content. But as of today - finally - Readup finally feels truly social. Here's what's new: 

**Profiles** Everyone has a profile. To put stuff on your profile, you post. 

**Post articles.** You can post anything you’ve read to your Readup profile. Posting something proves that you read it. It also kicks off a conversation with the rest of the Readup community. 

**Get followers.** On your profile page, you'll see a "Get followers" button. Share your profile far and wide (please! really!) so that others can stay up to date on your Readup activity.

**Follow people.** It just takes one click and it's a _real_ friend that you can _really_ read with.

**Bookmarks** See what percentage of an article you have read in the grey bookmark icon. 

**Improved Reader Mode.** Images in articles should always work now. And, yes, _even fewer_ distractions! We already had the cleanest, most beautiful reader view on the internet. Now it's even better. 

Stay curious. Stay nice. Have so much fun. And... 

**... _tell us what you think!_ Now more than ever, we really need your feedback. It's code red. Mission critical. So don't hesitate to reach out. support@readup.com or bill@readup.com**